SCENE 1 - AgileZen.com

Hello, my name is Mark Diaz and I'm here to talk to you about Agile Zen. AgileZen is a web-based project management software product designed for use in the Agile software development process. AgileZen focuses on organizing tasks in a visual manner with a simple elegance that can be attributed to a Zen influence to assist in management. You can create a free account by going to agilezen.com, clicking the "Sign up" button on the top right, and selecting a free plan which allows for one project, one collaborator, and email. 

Let's jump right in to AgileZen and see what we're working with.

SCENE 2 - People Page

The most vital component of any roject is the people who work on it. Adding a user takes no longer than clicking the Add Member button, typing in an email address, and selecting a role. I've included some users already to better illustrate working with a development team. 

Let's take a look at what the development team members see. 

SCENE 3 - Blank Board

This is the view of the task board of a new project. This project board has already been customized to illustrate some of the flexibility of the AgileZen kanban. Kanban is a Japanese word that comes from lean manufacturing processes and literally translates to "visual card". Each column on AgileZen's kanban board represents the phases that units of work go through from introduction to completion. In the Agile software development process these units of work are known as user stories and are to progress through these phases from left to right. In this scenario our board has been customized to represent a specific development team's process so the phases consist of  "Backlog", "Ready", "Working", "Ready for Testing", "Testing", "Ready for Acceptance", and "Acceptance."

Let's create a story. 

SCENE 3 - Story Creation

The story creation screen includes the important fields for a user story. Entering the user story is a straight-forward affair and can be embellished upon with details and tasks. [ctrl alt t]. In this instance we will use the details field to include direction to additional technical information and we will use tasks to track the acceptance criteria. [ctrl alt y details and ctrl alt u task]. At this point we can hang our story on the board or insert it into the backlog. 

This is purely educational because our Product Owner has written all of the stories for this sprint so far.

SCENE 4 - Working a Story

The board now shows a snapshot of the current sprint in the development of an IT automation tool. You can see that stories are in various phases and assigned to various developers. The stories are also assigned a weight during analysis and this is represented by the number in the box next to the story ID on the left of the story card. They can also be color coded for ease of indentification. Stories can be moved up and down and can be edited or expanded upon after their creation. Adding comments is a way to be able to keep track of work performed. You can also marked stories as blocked. Or back to ready. Once your story is ready for the next phase you can just drag it over. AgileZen supports integration with github, bitbucket, and google code to tie your stories to activites in your versioning system. There is also the capability to tie in to other services to extend the functionality of your cards outside of AgileZen. 
 
